todo.md, before:

## bugs

[//]: # (passant )
promotion- 1. type should not be null. 2. should pass check to front end 3. should piece be re-pointed?

[//]: # (checkmate - king cannot block itself from check)
[//]: # (castle- king cannot castle if it has moved)
end game - show last move
remove King from promotion options
print the reason for why move is illegal

## Abram chat

[//]: # (1. return all valid moves at once and let front end select from that list, thus limiting the calls)

[//]: # (2. include promotion options and special moves in the validMoves method return)
3. User must know the games it is in. Does player need user? 
4. Add board. Both board and piece keep track of location
5. game should control the pieces directly. Is player needed?
6. make iGame
7. isOnBoard part of Square's responsibility instead of Piece

player needs user to keep track of wins, losses, etc
how to map relationship between player and game? 1 to 1 but how does it know which one?

### joining games
need simple way of player rejoining active game
add updatedTime column so last game can be seen
with front end, have option to see all active games (include opponent, # of moves, updated time, and (not shown) id)
need to rework how front end begins game because pieces are not being read

[//]: # (### simplicity vs pojo)

[//]: # (should Piece implement its own business logic?)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (### move logic)

[//]: # (should I first move and then check if moved-or-defeated check? and then move back)


[//]: # (### stalemate)

[//]: # (have method to request draw. upon request, check if stalemate. if not, then ask 2nd player if it accepts)

[//]: # (use ifDidCheckMate plus all other pieces have empty legalMoves)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (### use DTOs)

[//]: # (could use it for piece logic- squares, friends, foes - and simplify Knight at least)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (### game over response)

[//]: # (should it have its own POJO? should have separate POJO for draw request?)



### update user stats
### message system



[//]: # (### promotion)

[//]: # (what to do if in check after promotion?)

[//]: # (must check for check afterwards and get move message.)

#### moves list
switched over to returning only latest move. should it return all moves?

Commit message:

fixed a bug for rejoining game, some small streamlining

todo.md, after:

## features to be implemented
login
play others online
better error messages - print the reason for why move is illegal
time limit to finish game (or whoever's turn it is loses)

## bugs
rejoining game does not show pieces correctly and wants white to move first

[//]: # (passant )
promotion- 1. type should not be null. 2. should pass check to front end 3. should piece be re-pointed?

[//]: # (checkmate - king cannot block itself from check)
[//]: # (castle- king cannot castle if it has moved)
end game - show last move

## Abram chat

[//]: # (1. return all valid moves at once and let front end select from that list, thus limiting the calls)

[//]: # (2. include promotion options and special moves in the validMoves method return)
3. User must know the games it is in. Does player need user? 
4. Add board. Both board and piece keep track of location
5. game should control the pieces directly. Is player needed?
6. make iGame
7. isOnBoard part of Square's responsibility instead of Piece

player needs user to keep track of wins, losses, etc
how to map relationship between player and game? 1 to 1 but how does it know which one?

### joining games
need simple way of player rejoining active game
add updatedTime column so last game can be seen
with front end, have option to see all active games (include opponent, # of moves, updated time, and (not shown) id)
need to rework how front end begins game because pieces are not being read

[//]: # (### simplicity vs pojo)

[//]: # (should Piece implement its own business logic?)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (### move logic)

[//]: # (should I first move and then check if moved-or-defeated check? and then move back)


[//]: # (### stalemate)

[//]: # (have method to request draw. upon request, check if stalemate. if not, then ask 2nd player if it accepts)

[//]: # (use ifDidCheckMate plus all other pieces have empty legalMoves)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (### use DTOs)

[//]: # (could use it for piece logic- squares, friends, foes - and simplify Knight at least)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (### game over response)

[//]: # (should it have its own POJO? should have separate POJO for draw request?)



[//]: # (### promotion)

[//]: # (what to do if in check after promotion?)

[//]: # (must check for check afterwards and get move message.)

#### moves list
switched over to returning only latest move. should it return all moves?
